In this video I'm going to tell you about Oilers formula which is also sometimes called Oilers identity.
It is a pretty important formula.
It shows up all the time in theoretical and applied mathematics.
So if you are unfamiliar with it then this is going to be a really exciting video.
Oilers formula is a good thing to have at least.
Passing familiarity with in no small part because Oilers formula leads directly to what is commonly
referred to as the most elegant equation in all of human civilization.
That is an extremely bold statement and it's not my personal opinion.
This is generally what people think.
If you look around on the Internet you will find much agreement about this.
All right so let's get to it.
Here we have the unit circle and I'm calling these two axes cosine and sine in other contexts.
You might see this referred to as the real axis and the imaginary axis.
So we can plot a unit vector on this unit circle.
This is a vector that has unit length or length of one and this dot is somewhere on this circle.
So the coordinates of this dot here are cosine K and sine K that I'm just reading directly off of the
axes here where k is this angle here.
So Oilers formula states that e to the Ike equals cosine K plus I assign K so cosine K and sine K this
are referring to these coordinates on these axes here and then e here is the natural exponent I of course
is the imaginary operator it's also here on the sine part and then K in all these cases is this angle
here.
So this means that e to the Ike is a compact notation for representing this point on this unit circle
or you can also think of it as this vector with Angle K but what if we wanted to represent this line
here.
Can you represent this line or this point here using Oilers formula now.
The way I've written this equation here the answer is no it's not possible because this expression exactly
how I've written it is limited to points that are on the unit circle however is actually pretty straightforward
to modify this equation to be able to represent this point or in general any point on this plane this
cosine signed plane or sometimes called the complex plane with a small modification and that is basically
to represent this coordinate using M E to the ik where m is the magnitude it's actually just the the
distance away from the origin or the length of this line.
Now I am particularly fond of using the letters M for magnitude and K for angle because that is pronounced
Mike and I think Mike is a pretty cool name.
I hope you agree.
Anyway you can see that for a point on the unit circle and would be set to 1.
So therefore these two equations aren't actually really different from each other.
This is just the special case where the vector is on the unit circle.
So given this formula we can actually already work through a couple of examples.
A couple of different points.
So for example we can take this point here where K the angle equals zero.
So this is just sitting right on the cosine axis or the real axis.
So now we can write each of the I's 0 equals one plus zero times I and this one and zero just come from
literally reading this point right off of this graph.
So we have a coordinate of 1 and 0 on the sine axis.
Now this is also not so surprising because you know from computing powers that any number to the power
of 0 equals 1.
So this is basically just saying that each of the 0 equals 1.
Let's pick another point.
How about this one up here.
So here the angle K is pi over 2 and the cosine coordinate is 0 and the sine coordinate is 1.
So this is telling us that E 2 the AI pi over 2 equals one AI or just AI.
How about this point over here.
Well the cosine axis is minus 1 the sine axis is 0 and the angle here is pi.
This is pi.
So now we get e to the AI pi equals minus one plus 0 AIS so we can actually just drop this term.
Now all I'm going to do is move the minus one to the left hand side of this equation and this gives
us e to the AI pi plus one equals zero.
And this thing right here this really simple equation which is actually just describing this point on
this complex plane.
This is the most elegant equation in all of human civilization.
And why is that the case.
It's the case because pretty much all the important terms all the base features from which you build
up mathematics are all contained inside this compact equation.
So we have equality which of course is important in mathematics.
We have the two most important rational numbers which are 0 and 1.
We have the two most important irrational numbers which are e and pi.
We have the two basic units for the real and imaginary axes and that's one.
And I and we have all the important arithmetic operations in here.
So we have addition which is the same thing as subtraction.
We have multiplication which is basically the same thing as division and we have exponential nation
which is also basically the same as the logarithm.
So you could take this equation and basically build up all of human mathematics all the mathematics
that humans have discovered from this one simple tiny little rinky dink equation and that is why this
is generally considered to be the most elegant equation ever discovered in human history.
All right let's do something slightly more mundane which is just to switch to Python and play around
with this a little bit I'd like to start by illustrating Oilers formula.
All right.
I should say Oilers identity.
So let's say k equals pi over four and m equals two point three.
And so what I'm gonna do now is basically create the number using Oilers notate or the left side of
Oilers notation and the right side of Oilers formula.
So let's see oil.
I'll call this variable oil for Euler is m times he to the I k now remember that Python uses 1 j for
the imaginary operator.
Whereas in mathematical notation you would typically write one eye or just I.
So this is for Oilers notation and then we have the right side of Oilers formula which is I'll call
this C I ask.
People often use this notation.
This is for cosine imaginary sine.
So this is going to be m times cosine of K plus ie times sine of K and now what I'm going to do is print
out both of these and if I haven't made any coding errors intent then these should be identical to each
other.
So let's have a look.
So we see.
So these are complex numbers right.
Because there's a imaginary component.
So we have the real part and the imaginary part.
So the real part seems to be identical for these two but the imaginary part appears to be different.
So what is going on.
What is the mistake.
The mistake here is actually that I'm only multiplying M by cosine I'm not multiplying M by sine.
So in fact the way you have to write this expression out would be m times I sign now most people don't
do it that way.
A much more common way to do this multiplication appropriately loops is to use parentheses like this.
So then you get m times and then everything in here is the cosine plus I assign part.
So now I run this again and we get identical results for Oilers notation on the bottom and the cosine
plus sine notation on top.
Now these student numbers the real part and the imaginary part also happened to be identical to each
other but that's because I use an angle of pi over four which is a 45 degree angle so we can change
this to like pi over 6 and then you see that the real part and the imaginary parts are different.
Okay so then the next thing I want to do is make a plot.
So show a vector from these two expressions so Oilers formula and the CIS notation of the cosine I sign.
So to make a polar plot to make a vector from this thing here what I need to do is extract the magnitude
and the angle from that complex number and you will remember that I discussed this general approach
to plotting complex numbers in the section on algebra 2.
So let's say we need a mag that's going to do so I'm going to call this variable mag for magnitude so
a b US oil and then the angle is going to be known PI that angle oil and now this is actually a little
bit circular because this magnitude here is exactly the same as M and this angle here is what I referred
to as k up here.
So just to show you this quickly I'm gonna write M mag and you can see they're both two point three
and then K and Ng and these are both whatever number they are what corresponds to pi over 6.
So slightly circular but at least you know this is in the interest of completeness.
So let's see let's to plot polar.
Now I want a vector so it's gonna go from the origin and then we need the angle of the vector and then
the magnitude is going to be matched.
And let's make this red.
So let's see how this plot looks.
All right so this looks pretty good.
We see the vector out here.
The magnet magnitude here so the distance away from the origin is mostly you know most of the way between
2 and 2.5.
So that's about right.
Okay.
And then what I want to do is plot a coordinate on top of here and that is going to come from the CIS
formulation here.
So I'm going to write P L T dot polar.
So to get a dot I don't need to specify two coordinates I just need to specify hard.
Well I should say two components to each of these coordinates I only specify one input for the angle
and one input for the magnitude.
So this is K whoops K comma M and let's make this a blue dot.
So we get a blue dot at the end point of this vector.
Yeah it's not so surprising that these two correspond to the end of this vector given the kind of circularity
of using M and K to create Oilers notation here and then extracting them here.
Nonetheless I think these kinds of geometric demonstrations are always useful for building up intuition
so in this video I talked about Oilers formula.
Also called Oilers identity.
You learned about the most elegant equation in all of human civilization.
Up to now maybe someone will discover a more elegant equation at some point in the future.
Of course there is a exercise associated with this video.
You are going to learn more about using functions and polar plots in that exercise.
So stay tuned.
Don't go too far away and I will see you in a moment.